We will now demonstrate graphical tools for
package management on openSUSE with the GNOME interface.
The basic tool for doing this is called YaST, Y-A-S-T,
which stands for Yet Another Setup Tool,
and it's available in all SUSE-based systems.
So, if I click in the upper right here, and then I click on Settings,
you'll see at the very bottom,
it's a little hard to see, but you'll see the YaST icon.
Of course, it wants me to have root privilege.
So, I'll type in the root password.
Then, YaST does much more than control package management,
it's your basic interface for all system administration.
But let's scroll down to the System and look for Software.
It's right at the top, Software Management.
So first, it has to synchronize all its repository information,
to be sure it's up to date.
Then, I get the basic interface here.
It's waiting for me to search,
so I could search something like gcc.
It will show me all packages that have gcc in their name.
But let's go over to Package Group, because that is the easiest way to interface.
Then, I can go click on any particular thing,
suppose I click on the GNOME Desktop,
it gives me a list of packages that are installed.
Okay. So, notice what would happen if I click on
NetworkManager-gnome and I just click on it one time.
It may be hard to see,
but I'll put a little up arrow there.
If I say, "Accept",
it's going to re-install this package.
It already was installed,
so that was unnecessary.
But if you think there's a problem,
then that's a good thing to do.
Now, let's get back into Software Management again.
So, it's re-synchronizing.
If I go back to Package Groups and I'll get back into GNOME again.
Then now, if I click on it twice.
Okay. Now, that would be to remove,
which is not a very wise idea here because it's a very basic package that's
going to remove a bunch of other things that I do not want to remove,
so I won't do that.
So, that's a brief look at
the Package Manager capabilities that are embedded in YaST on SUSE systems.